# Benjamin deMayo Project Proposal

## Justification
Sharif & Oppenheimer (2016) investigated memory-based judgements and how they are influenced by relative encoding. In their first experiment, they found that when making quality judgements based on music clips presented at different periods in time, people rely on the relative quality of the stimuli at the time of encoding, rather than making judgements based on absolute quality considering exposure to all of the stimuli. Part of my motivation to replicate this study is to further explore the robustness of this effect reported in the paper (chi-square goodness of fit test, df = 2, p = 0.044, N = 90). My main motivation for this replication is simple curiosity about this result (especially given my experience as a classical clarinetist who has taken auditions for many performance groups in which judges are charged with ranking candidates who try out on different days, or sometimes in different weeks). How fallible is human memory when tasked with evaluating absolute quality across different such time periods? In terms of my research interests, I chose this project mainly because I believe it is scaffolded nicely in order to be a productive, but not overwhelming, learning process for me. I have a general interest in the role of context during encoding in eventual memory retrieval, but it is not an interest I have explored in my research as an undergraduate student here; I look forward to doing that in a guided way in this class.

## Stimuli and Procedure
The procedure of the experiment seems to be fairly straightforward. Acquisition of all stimulus materials is facilitated by their availability on the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/r5kcn/). The study will be a Qualtrics survey with embedded video stimuli. Participants will be recruited using Amazon Mechanical Turk, a platform I have never directly used in my research experience. Each participants watches 5 music clips in total: 3 in the first time block and 2 in the second time block, with a distractor task in the middle of the experiment to clear memory of videos watched at Time 1. The task is quite short for participants (likely no longer that 30 minutes, though I did not find this information reported in the paper or on OSF). I will need to further explore class budget constraints and the feasibility of collecting a sample as large as the one reported in the paper (N = 90). Overall, my main challenges will likely be learning to use MTurk, gaining deeper familiarity with Qualtrics, and using RMarkdown to format a readable data analysis report. 